Disk Covering Benchmark: self-check answer protocol v1

Purpose
The publisher posts prompts, run conditions, reference hashes and their own
test records. Other participants can test and compare answers locally.
Reported timing is self-reported. This protocol checks answer fingerprints,
not proofs, model identity or execution time. Large proof packages need not
be uploaded under this protocol; keep them separately.

Environment
Python 3.9 or newer; standard library only, no third-party dependencies.

Inputs
1. n: a positive integer.
2. coefficients.json: a UTF-8 JSON array of exact integers.
   Order: constant coefficient, coefficient of t, coefficient of t^2, ...,
   leading coefficient. This is increasing degree, not numerical sorting.
   Preserve internal zeros. Do not use floats or scientific notation.
3. Radius: high-precision decimal text; at least 30–40 decimal places are
   recommended as a starting point. Near a rounding boundary, use more.
   The script cannot verify the supplied precision.

Normalization
Remove surplus zeros at the highest-degree end, divide all coefficients by
their greatest common divisor, and make the leading coefficient positive.
Constant polynomials are rejected. The participant must supply the minimal
polynomial; the script does not prove irreducibility or global optimality.
The radius must lie in [0,1]. Round using ROUND_HALF_UP to exactly 20 digits
after the decimal point, not 20 significant digits. Preserve trailing zeros.
Do not convert through float.

Hash payload
A JSON object containing protocol, n, coefficients and radius.
protocol is exactly diskcover-minpoly-v1.
Sort keys alphabetically. Use no extra spaces, BOM or trailing newline.
Coefficients are JSON integers; radius is a JSON string with exactly 20
digits after the decimal point. Hash these UTF-8 bytes using SHA-256 and
output lowercase hexadecimal.
This protocol specifies exact-integer JSON encoding. Do not decode huge
coefficients through JavaScript Number and re-encode them. The canonical
script's output defines the encoding. Chinese and English versions use
the same fields, protocol identifier and hashing bytes.

Run
python tools/diskcover_answer.py --n 11 --coefficients coefficients.json --radius YOUR_HIGH_PRECISION_RADIUS

Compare
python tools/diskcover_answer.py --n 11 --coefficients coefficients.json --radius YOUR_HIGH_PRECISION_RADIUS --expected-sha256 PUBLISHED_64_HEX_HASH

A match outputs matches_reference: true and exits with code 0.
A mismatch outputs false and exits with code 1. Invalid input exits with 2.
The script also outputs the normalized answer and exact canonical_json.
If you downloaded the script alone, adjust its path in these commands.

Publisher and participants
Both sides must use the same protocol version and script for fingerprints.
The publisher generates a reference from their checked minimal polynomial
and sufficiently precise radius. Report the task, protocol, answer hash,
model and reasoning settings, starting materials, permitted tools, hardware,
actual time, cost and number of runs. Disclose networking and any existing
configurations, solving code or answers used.

Scores
For a valid answer under a frozen contract within its budget:
score = ROUND_HALF_UP(200 + 100 × log2(21600 / T)), with T in seconds.
Higher is better: 6 hours scores 200, each halving adds 100, and 3 minutes
scores 891. Round to an integer using ROUND_HALF_UP.
Failure or timeout scores 0; untested runs do not score 0. For n≤30 the limit
is 12 hours (43200 seconds): valid completion exactly at the deadline scores
100, while later completion scores 0. A shorter agreed budget must also be
met; limits for n>30 remain to be set. These are arithmetic examples.
Here, a valid answer means a fingerprint match, not independently completed
global proof. Only after additional proof verification may a record be
marked as having its complete proof checked. Current historical scores are
demonstrations; the formal comparison contract is not yet frozen.

Limitations
The 20-place radius is a fixed fingerprint/display field, not a proof of
unique root identity. Different real roots may round to the same value.
Strict distinction requires checking the root-isolating interval separately
or adding a real-root index in a new protocol version.
The full polynomial and rounded radius jointly compare answer data. Decimal
precision alone neither proves a result nor prevents copying a known answer.
Public reference hashes support self-checking, not an audited anti-cheating
leaderboard. The rational isolating interval is required by the mathematical
prompt but is not included in the v1 payload.

Versioning
Changes to fields, sorting, radius rounding, decimal places or encoding
require a new protocol version. Do not compare hashes across versions.
Translation alone does not change the protocol.
